README.md, before:

# apidoc-git

# Git command line

## I. Config: global - user
### global:
+ _Set user profile_:
```javascript
git config --global user.name "name"
git config --global user.email "email"
```
+ _Set default editor_: 
```javascript
git config --global core.editor="link-to-editor"
```
+ _Set alias_
```javascript
git config --global alias.key value (or 'value')
```
### user:

## II. States: Untracked (1) - Umodified (2) - Modified (3) - Staged (4)
+ **git status**
```javascript
+ (1) -> add -> (4) 
+ (2) -> modify -> (3)
+ (3) -> add -> (4)
+ (4)-> commit -> (2)
```

## III. Ignore - Unstaged - Unmodified
```javascript
+ Ignore: .gitignore
+ Unmodified: **git restore <file>**
+ Unstaged: **git restore --staged <file>**
```

## Log
+ **Show basic info**
```javascript
git log
```
+ **Shows the difference introduced in each commit**
```javascript
git log -p
```
+ **Get 2 lasted commit**
```javascript
git log -2
```
+ **Show more info**
```javascript
git log --stat
```
+ **Only show git id and message**
```javascript
git log --pretty=oneline
```
+ **Only show commit of lasted 2 weeks**
```javascript
git log --since=2.weeks
```

## IV. Committing
+ **Unmodified** :point_right: remove modifying, come back to last commit
```javascript
git checkout -- <file>
```
+ **Unstaged** :point_right: remove staged, come back to last index
```javascript
git reset HEAD <file>
```
+ **Addtitional added file after commited and before pushed** :point_right: merge multiple staging into one commit
```javascript
git commit --amend
```
- *Change commit message* :arrow_right: change message then write (:w) and quit (:q)
```javascript
git commit --amend
```
- *Don't change commit message*:
```javascript
git commit --amend --no-edit
```

## V. Committed
+ **Uncommited**:
    * Not pushed yet:
        - Hard :point_right: come back n commit before, move HEAD to n commit before, move index to n added before and remove changed in working directory (local).
        ```javascript
        git reset --hard HEAD~n -> n can a number or nothing (default is 1)
        ```
        - Mixed :point_right: come back n commit before, move HEAD to n commit before, move index to n added before and don't remove changed in working directory (local).
        ```javascript
        git reset --mixed HEAD~n -> n can a number or nothing (default is 1)
        ```
        - Soft :point_right: come back n commit before, move HEAD to n commit before and don't remove changed in working directory (local).
        ```javascript
        git reset --soft HEAD~n -> n can a number or nothing (default is 1)
        ```
    * Pushed: 
    ```javascript
    git revert <commit_hash>
    or
    git revert HEAD~
    ```
+ **Unpush** :point_right: after commited, when no anyone had pulled from current branch
```javascript
git reset --hard HEAD~
git push --force
```
+ **Unpull** :point_right: common for conflict case
```javascript
git reset --hard ORIG_HEAD
```
+ **Incorrect branch**: Uncommited :arrow_right: **git branch \<branchName\>** :arrow_right: re-commit

## VI. Remote
+ **Remote a new respository**: 
```javascript
git remote add <remoteName(common is origin)> <url>
```
+ **Show remote**: 
```javascript
git remote
```
or:
```javascript
git remote -v
```
or:
```javascript
git remote show
```
+ **Rename remote**: 
```javascript
git remote rename <oldName> <newName>
```
+ **Remove remote**: 
```javascript
git remote rm <remoteName>
```

## VII. Branch
1. **Create new branch**
```javascript
git branch <branchName>
```
2. __Show full branch__
```javascript
git branch
```
- _Show branch merged_
```javascript
git branch --merged
```
- _Show branch not merged yet_
```javascript
git branch --no-merged
```
2. **Show all branch on remote repository*
```javascript
git branch -a - branch local and branch remote
git branch -l - only branch local
git branch -r - only branch remote
```
or more detail
```javascript
git remote show <remoteName>
```
or
```javascript
git ls-remote <remoteName>
```
3. __Switch branch__
```javascript
git checkout <branchName>
```
4. __Create and Switch branch in one line__
```javascript
git checkout -b <branchName>
```
5. __Merge__
```javascript
git branch master
git merge <branchName>
```
6. __Public branch on remote repository__
```javascript
git push --set-upstream origin <branchName>
```
7. __Delete branch__
- _Delete local branch_
```javascript
git branch -d <brandName> -use -D if branch not merged yet
```
- _Delete remote branch_
```javascript
git push origin -d/--delete <brandName>
```
or delete branch after pushed
```javascript
git push <remoteName> -d/--delete <branchName>
```
If want to recover branch:
```javascript
git branch <branchName> <commit_hash> - only local
```
8. __Tracking a branch on remote repository__
- _From the local branch_
```javascript
git branch --set-upstream-to=<remoteName>/<branchName> <currentBranchName> - currentBranchName in local
```
- __From the remote branch__
```javascript
git fetch
git checkout <branchName>
or:
git checkout --track <remoteName>/<branchName>
```
9. **Rebase**: _merge after branch master HEAD_
```javascript
git checkout <brandName> - if branch dev at here
git add .
git commit -m "message"
git rebase master
git checkout master
git merge <branchName> - so branch dev also at here
git push
```
_If conflict occurs:_
```javascript
resolve conflict and use --continue option
git add .
git rebase --continue
git checkout master
```

## VIII. Stashing
1. __Stash__ :point_right: save changed in working directory at current branch
```javascript
git stash - Save to the last stash (0)
```
or save with a message:
```javascript
git stash save <message> - Don't need use '' or "" for the message
```
2. __Get stash list__
```javascript
git stash list
```
or:
```javascript
git stash list --stat
```
3. __Apply stash__
- Don't specify any stash :point_right: apply last stash
```javascript
git stash apply
```
- Specify stash
```javascript
git stash apply stash@{<stt>}
```
* **Apply and drop stash**
```javascript
git stash pop - apply for the last stash
```
* **Apply and keep index if stash after commited**
```javascript
git stash apply --index
```
4. __Delete stash__
```javascript
git stash drop - drop the first stash
```
or
```javascript
git stash drop stash@{stt}
```
* **Clear stash**
```javascript
git stash clear
```

## IX. Cleaning 
### :point_right: Remove untracked file
```javascript
git clean -f
```

## X. Tagging
1. **Lightweight tag** :point_right: _common use for local_
- *Add lightweight tag*:
```javascript
git tag <tagName> - set tag message same commit message
```
2. **Annotated tag** :point_right: _common use for remote repository_
- *Add new tag without message*
```javascript
git tag -a <tagName> -- set tag message as commit message
```
- *Add new tag with message*
```javascript
git tag -am "message" <tagName>
```
or:
```javascript
git tag -a <tagName> -m "message"
```
* _Add new tag for specify commit_
```javascript
git tag -a <tagName> -m "message" <commit_hash>
```
3. **_Working with tag_**
+ *Listing togs*:
```javascript
git tag
```
+ _Listing tags from remote repository_
```javascript
git ls-remote -t/--tag - If do not contain --tag, it will listing more info such as HEAD, Branch and Tag
```
+ _Show a tag_:
```javascript
git show <tagName>
```
+ *Show tagName and message*:
```javascript
git tag -n
```
+ _Release_ :point_right: _Pushing tag_
```javascript
git push <remoteName> <tagName>
```
or push every tag:
```javascript
git push <remoteName> --tags
```
+ *Remove tag on local*
```javascript
git tag -d <tagName>
```
+ *Remove tag on remote repository*
```javascript
git push <remoteName> -d/--delete <tagName>
```
+ *Switch and checkout a tag for different branch*
```javascript
git checkout -b <newBranchName> <tagName>
```

# How to escape the git commit console screen
- 1. Hit **ESC**.
- 2. **:w** -> write the new commit into old commit
- 3. **:q** -> quit the commit window

# Format for Github README.md
1. Font: **Bold**, __Bold2__, *Italic*, _Italic2_, ***Bold and Italic***, **Bold and _just italic in here_**
2. Quote: 
```
This is a quote
```
3. [Emoji and Link](https://www.webfx.com/tools/emoji-cheat-sheet/): :smile:
4. Task lists and Nested lists: 
    - [x] ticked
    - [ ] not ticked

# apidoc-git

Commit message:

Additional change the information after commited

README.md, after:

# apidoc-git

# Git command line

## I. Config: global - user
### global:
+ _Set user profile_:
```javascript
git config --global user.name "name"
git config --global user.email "email"
```
+ _Set default editor_: 
```javascript
git config --global core.editor="link-to-editor"
```
+ _Set alias_
```javascript
git config --global alias.key value (or 'value')
```
### user:

## II. States: Untracked (1) - Umodified (2) - Modified (3) - Staged (4)
+ **git status**
```javascript
+ (1) -> add -> (4) 
+ (2) -> modify -> (3)
+ (3) -> add -> (4)
+ (4)-> commit -> (2)
```

## III. Ignore - Unstaged - Unmodified
```javascript
+ Ignore: .gitignore
+ Unmodified: **git restore <file>**
+ Unstaged: **git restore --staged <file>**
```

## Log
+ **Show basic info**
```javascript
git log
```
+ **Shows the difference introduced in each commit**
```javascript
git log -p
```
+ **Get 2 lasted commit**
```javascript
git log -2
```
+ **Show more info**
```javascript
git log --stat
```
+ **Only show git id and message**
```javascript
git log --pretty=oneline
```
+ **Only show commit of lasted 2 weeks**
```javascript
git log --since=2.weeks
```

## IV. Committing
+ **Unmodified** :point_right: remove modifying, come back to last commit
```javascript
git checkout -- <file>
```
+ **Unstaged** :point_right: remove staged, come back to last index
```javascript
git reset HEAD <file>
```
+ **Change the author information**
```javascript
git config --global user.name "new name"
git config --global user.email "new email"
git commit --amend --reset-author
```
+ **Addtitional added file after commited and before pushed** :point_right: merge multiple staging into one commit
```javascript
// Open the default editor
git commit --amend
or:
// Write a new message in one line
git commit --amend -m "new commit message"
```
- *Change commit message* :arrow_right: change message then write (:w) and quit (:q)
```javascript
git commit --amend
```
- *Don't change commit message*:
```javascript
git commit --amend --no-edit
```

## V. Committed
+ **Uncommited**:
    * Not pushed yet:
        - Hard :point_right: come back n commit before, move HEAD to n commit before, move index to n added before and remove changed in working directory (local).
        ```javascript
        git reset --hard HEAD~n -> n can a number or nothing (default is 1)
        ```
        - Mixed :point_right: come back n commit before, move HEAD to n commit before, move index to n added before and don't remove changed in working directory (local).
        ```javascript
        git reset --mixed HEAD~n -> n can a number or nothing (default is 1)
        ```
        - Soft :point_right: come back n commit before, move HEAD to n commit before and don't remove changed in working directory (local).
        ```javascript
        git reset --soft HEAD~n -> n can a number or nothing (default is 1)
        ```
    * Pushed: 
    ```javascript
    // Create a new commit, which same to commit be choose to revert
    git revert <commit_hash> - git revert only using on dev branch
    or // HEAD~n
    git revert HEAD~
    ```
+ **Unpush** :point_right: after commited, when no anyone had pulled from current branch
```javascript
// Move HEAD to n commit before or commit be choosen
git reset --hard HEAD~ or git reset --hard <commit_id>
// repush after unpush and comitted
git push --force
// All commit after the commit be choosen to unpush was be deleted (different with revert)
```
+ **Unpull** :point_right: common for conflict case
```javascript
git reset --hard ORIG_HEAD
```
+ **Incorrect branch**: Uncommited :arrow_right: **git branch \<branchName\>** :arrow_right: re-commit

## VI. Remote
+ **Remote a new respository**: 
```javascript
git remote add <remoteName(common is origin)> <url>
```
+ **Show remote**: 
```javascript
git remote
```
or:
```javascript
git remote -v
```
or:
```javascript
git remote show
```
+ **Rename remote**: 
```javascript
git remote rename <oldName> <newName>
```
+ **Remove remote**: 
```javascript
git remote rm <remoteName>
```

## VII. Branch
1. **Create new branch**
```javascript
git branch <branchName>
```
2. __Show full branch__
```javascript
git branch
```
- _Show branch merged_
```javascript
git branch --merged
```
- _Show branch not merged yet_
```javascript
git branch --no-merged
```
2. **Show all branch on remote repository*
```javascript
git branch -a - branch local and branch remote
git branch -l - only branch local
git branch -r - only branch remote
```
or more detail
```javascript
git remote show <remoteName>
```
or
```javascript
git ls-remote <remoteName>
```
3. __Switch branch__
```javascript
git checkout <branchName>
```
4. __Create and Switch branch in one line__
```javascript
git checkout -b <branchName>
```
5. __Merge__
```javascript
git branch master
git merge <branchName>
```
6. __Public branch on remote repository__
```javascript
git push --set-upstream origin <branchName>
```
7. __Delete branch__
- _Delete local branch_
```javascript
git branch -d <brandName> -use -D if branch not merged yet
```
- _Delete remote branch_
```javascript
git push origin -d/--delete <brandName>
```
or delete branch after pushed
```javascript
git push <remoteName> -d/--delete <branchName>
```
If want to recover branch:
```javascript
git branch <branchName> <commit_hash> - only local
```
8. __Tracking a branch on remote repository__
- _From the local branch_
```javascript
git branch --set-upstream-to=<remoteName>/<branchName> <currentBranchName> - currentBranchName in local
```
- __From the remote branch__
```javascript
git fetch
git checkout <branchName>
or:
git checkout --track <remoteName>/<branchName>
```
9. **Rebase**: _merge after branch master HEAD_
```javascript
git checkout <brandName> - if branch dev at here
git add .
git commit -m "message"
git rebase master
git checkout master
git merge <branchName> - so branch dev also at here
git push
```
_If conflict occurs:_
```javascript
resolve conflict and use --continue option
git add .
git rebase --continue
git checkout master
```

## VIII. Stashing
1. __Stash__ :point_right: save changed in working directory at current branch
```javascript
git stash - Save to the last stash (0)
```
or save with a message:
```javascript
git stash save <message> - Don't need use '' or "" for the message
```
2. __Get stash list__
```javascript
git stash list
```
or:
```javascript
git stash list --stat
```
3. __Apply stash__
- Don't specify any stash :point_right: apply last stash
```javascript
git stash apply
```
- Specify stash
```javascript
git stash apply stash@{<stt>}
```
* **Apply and drop stash**
```javascript
git stash pop - apply for the last stash
```
* **Apply and keep index if stash after commited**
```javascript
git stash apply --index
```
4. __Delete stash__
```javascript
git stash drop - drop the first stash
```
or
```javascript
git stash drop stash@{stt}
```
* **Clear stash**
```javascript
git stash clear
```

## IX. Cleaning 
### :point_right: Remove untracked file
```javascript
git clean -f
```

## X. Tagging
1. **Lightweight tag** :point_right: _common use for local_
- *Add lightweight tag*:
```javascript
git tag <tagName> - set tag message same commit message
```
2. **Annotated tag** :point_right: _common use for remote repository_
- *Add new tag without message*
```javascript
git tag -a <tagName> -- set tag message as commit message
```
- *Add new tag with message*
```javascript
git tag -am "message" <tagName>
```
or:
```javascript
git tag -a <tagName> -m "message"
```
* _Add new tag for specify commit_
```javascript
git tag -a <tagName> -m "message" <commit_hash>
```
3. **_Working with tag_**
+ *Listing togs*:
```javascript
git tag
```
+ _Listing tags from remote repository_
```javascript
git ls-remote -t/--tag - If do not contain --tag, it will listing more info such as HEAD, Branch and Tag
```
+ _Show a tag_:
```javascript
git show <tagName>
```
+ *Show tagName and message*:
```javascript
git tag -n
```
+ _Release_ :point_right: _Pushing tag_
```javascript
git push <remoteName> <tagName>
```
or push every tag:
```javascript
git push <remoteName> --tags
```
+ *Remove tag on local*
```javascript
git tag -d <tagName>
```
+ *Remove tag on remote repository*
```javascript
git push <remoteName> -d/--delete <tagName>
```
+ *Switch and checkout a tag for different branch*
```javascript
git checkout -b <newBranchName> <tagName>
```

# How to escape the git commit console screen
- 1. Hit **ESC**.
- 2. **:w** -> write the new commit into old commit
- 3. **:q** -> quit the commit window

# Format for Github README.md
1. Font: **Bold**, __Bold2__, *Italic*, _Italic2_, ***Bold and Italic***, **Bold and _just italic in here_**
2. Quote: 
```
This is a quote
```
3. [Emoji and Link](https://www.webfx.com/tools/emoji-cheat-sheet/): :smile:
4. Task lists and Nested lists: 
    - [x] ticked
    - [ ] not ticked

# apidoc-git
